---
title: "The First Big Adventure of Tommy Twist - Full Text"
permalink: /tfbaottfull/
excerpt: "Tommy is your typical 10 year-old who just so happens to have an over-active sense of curiosity.<br>Lehnair is your typical, single eyed Morgangetter who is stuck working in a factory on a barren mining planet.<br>Tommy has never seen an alien, and Lehnair has never met an Earthling, but all of that is about change!"
date: 2017-03-13
header:
  image: /assets/images/tfbaottcover.jpg
---
{% include toc %}

## Chapter 1 *Lienhar*

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Forever the rich, and forget the poor.” Lehnair remembered those words from one of his father's numerous lectures. “You've got purple-skin, so learn your place.”<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He peeled his single large eye open. It was still dark of course, as you'd expect being on a planet so distant from a star.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Why couldn't someone install some lamps around this place,” came the thought.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;That was his life though. Dark, dim, and never lighting up to a shining moment. You could blame his squalor on his mother had he ever met her. Or maybe on his Father had he ever listened to anything the old man taught him. As it was, he only took half of it seriously, the part about the poor being forgotten.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Lehnair took his time getting out of bed, spending a generous few minutes stretching each of his four arms. The ceiling looked particularly normal today. Clean, and probably white, although it was gray without sunlight to reflect off of it. The beds were the most comfortable pieces of furniture in the entire structure, so why be in a hurry to get off of it?<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Reaching for his crumpled jumpsuit, he thought about how nice it would be to own a different set of clothes for each day of the week. A second shirt, a pair of pants, or perhaps even a business suit. Then he wouldn't have to worry about how bad his sweat ridden uniform smelled each time he put it on. The odor blended in with the rest of the purple-skins and was the brunt of the green-skin's cruel jokes.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Lehnair huffed out mockingly, “why do you all have to smell so bad? Why can't you learn to clean yourselves for once?” Whatever. One day very soon, things were going to change.<br>
	
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The first thing he heard stepping onto the factory floor was the Foreman screaming at him, “Number 575! You're two minutes late! Get to work before we decide to drop you into that black-hole!”<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The shop reeked and even Lehnair had to wrinkle his nose as he walked further in. Sweat, burnt chemicals, and something that was probably mold from condensation on the factory walls all mixed together into a pungent aroma.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Surveying today's pile of junk on his workbench he sat down in his assigned seat. With his large upper hands he hefted a metallic casing while his smaller, more agile hands strung the wiring between each piece underneath. “I'd like to see some two-armed green-skin try that,” Lehnair whispered under his breath so only his neighbors could enjoy a silent chuckle. <br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“I said get to work you lazy purple-skin!” The Foreman continued shouting in random directions.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Yes sir,” Lehnair and several others mumbled after each shriek. It was all they were allowed to say. Anything else could get them fired, removed from their apartment, and possibly thrown outside the only complex on the surface. A dangerous proposition considering this particular planet had no atmosphere to breathe. It was all company property, and if you don't work for the company, you've got no right being there.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Mr. Foreman? Uh, Mr. Foreman?” One of the purple-skins down the row was trying to get the glowering green-skin's attention. The green-skins preferred to be called by their titles.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“What?!” the Foreman's response caused the inquiring purple-skin to fall out of his chair, and gave some of the security guards a good laugh.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“I, uh, wanted to show you something I've been working on. A new design.”<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Lehnair shook his head. What an idiot. Though he kept his eye turned just far enough to glance at what was happening.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Let's see it then – quickly! Hand it over.”<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The purple-skin handed a few pieces of small, rectangular cloth to the Foreman. Lehnair caught a glimpse of writing and sketches etched across what had probably been pockets from the purple-skin's own clothing.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“I figured it'd be something we could ship in large quantities to Earth. I've heard they like those sorts of things.”<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Flipping through the pieces, the Foreman eyed them over with a greedy look that Lehnair knew all too well.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;After a few moments of examination, the Foreman finally responded, “I'll take these to the boss and see what he thinks. In the meantime, get back to work 592!”<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The Foreman walked so fast toward the boss's office that he might as well have run. Staring over at the other purple-skin, Lehnair noticed a faint smile on the worker's face. He knew better though. Poor Klibold was never going to see anything come from his design. The Foreman was undoubtedly handing the paper to the boss right now and explaining how he, himself came up with the idea, or, if he were in a generous mood, how his shift of workers came up with the idea under his own “brilliant” direction. <br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Anything designed or thought of by an employee belonged to the company. That was a rule established by the boss long before the first purple-skin was ever shipped over. Something felt slimy about it though, no matter when or how the rule was set.<br>


## Chapter 2 *Tommy Twist*

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“It’s what? Red!” Or so the story goes anyway. Tommy had heard it a bazillion times by now. How he was born, amazingly, with red hair. Neither of his parents had even so much of an inkling of similar coloring, but what was the amazement for? Red headed children were born to parents with different colors of hair every day. It was a matter of simple genetics.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Tommy was now a tall, lanky, and still quite red-headed ten year-old. Well, fine, maybe not so tall, but he was so skinny that unless he were standing next to someone else his age you’d mistake him for being at least two years older than he was. Even when he was on the phone, most people assumed they were talking to another grown-up. Before he could speak he was using sign-language to communicate with his parents what he wanted: Rubbing his chest to say please, then showing his fist just right for milk, and voila! Mom and Dad knew exactly what he wanted.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Now, most ten year-olds are smart, probably smarter than they should be, and it wasn’t that Tommy was genetically gifted or anything remotely like it (he hated his freckles). He just knew the secret. Something that makes an average person amazing, or a below average person rise above par. There was no use sharing it with anyone though, not because he didn’t want them to be as smart, but because most people, especially adults, disregard anything a child has to say. Who’d want to take the advice of someone a third, fourth, or even a fifth their age?<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To casual observers, his room looked like a mess. Papers were strewn about the floor. Plastic vials, some filled with odd, color-changing liquids were setup next to a large box that read, “My Fourth Chemistry Set – for ages 12 and up.” There was a bookshelf in the corner, although most of the books were either open on the bed or on the floor. Tommy was sitting in an old, under-stuffed recliner with the footrest in the ‘up’ position, not paying any attention to the open book on his lap. The problem was, nothing had happened lately. Not a thing! Life had come to a halt, and that was a serious dilemma. Whenever things were this quiet, it was because something big was gearing up and getting ready to pounce. Tommy was lost in his thoughts. <br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;No good could come from worrying about it though, so he put his latest invention, the Cellulose-pulp Degravitator, on his thumb and rotated it about ten degrees to the right. Shiny white sparks fell out of the thimble shaped device and landed on the open page of his book. The paper rose and flopped over to reveal the next page. It was a new chapter titled, “Space, Time, and Other Mathematical Constants of the Universe.”<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Gotta keep my mind from wandering too much,” he thought. He had already read this chapter twice, and wasn’t able to convince himself to focus hard enough to read through it a third time.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Repetition is the key to memorization, right?” he pondered out loud to keep his eyelids from falling. “Yeah, right.”<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Rotating the degravitator another forty degrees, he reached out towards the bookshelf. The large volume entitled “Intergalactic Geography for the Fifth Dimensionally Inclined” sprung towards him. He caught it just as its former neighbors leaped off the bookcase, landing on the floor with a loud thud. <br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Tommy, what are you doing in there?” his mom cried out from across the hall. “Nothing, just running a few experiments,” he replied while snatching the Degravitator off his thumb and shoving it in his jean's pocket. The door cracked open with his mother carelessly taking the last curler out of her chestnut colored hair.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Thomas, please clean up this mess. We’ve got dinner guests coming in under an hour, and I could still use your help getting the house ready.” <br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Right Mom, I’ll be down as soon as I finish recalibrating… I mean, uh… cleaning my room.” <br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;She raised an eyebrow. “Please keep that imagination of yours in check tonight. Our guests are from Dad’s work, and we want to give them a good impression.”<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;She closed the door gently and Tommy listened until her footsteps reached downstairs. “Imagination?” he pouted. Nobody ever believed him. Not even the time he brought his parents an actual photograph of a Subterranean Wormling. An incredibly difficult thing to obtain by the way, as they hate light, and therefore camera flashes. The whole incident could have started a planetary war. “Something must happen to people when they become adults. Something that makes them blind to things they don’t want to see or believe.”<br>

<center>&#42;&#42;&#42;</center>

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The Twists were good people, even if they appeared overly frantic at the moment. Mrs. Twist was switching back and forth between a broom and an old plastic vacuum cleaner, while Mr. Twist, wearing a silly apron over his shirt, tie, and slacks, was busy getting dinner ready in the small kitchenette. Tommy came downstairs wearing his nicest sneakers, a clean orange shirt, and a pair of jeans that hadn't yet frayed around the ankles.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Oh, please try to reuse the knives dear,” Mom requested as Dad dropped another one into the sink after cutting up some strange looking vegetable that was probably something normal, nonetheless unrecognizable. It must have come from their own garden.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The house wasn’t large, but it was well cared for. Having any number of guests over would fill up the entire dining room, which was actually a corner next to the kitchen with a small oval table. The simple wood chairs were arranged so that company would have more elbow room than anyone else. The “lefties,” Tommy and his Dad, would sit next to each other on one side, and Mom, the right-handed person in the family, would be at one the heads of the table.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;It was the same bustling mood that occurs whenever a group of Ravenous Bark-Dwellers find themselves a fresh tree to consume. Tommy didn't understand the anxiety, since, to him, this kind of visit was a regular occurrence by now. People from Dad's work never actually stayed for dinner. They never even came into the house when they were invited. The doorbell would ring, they would drop off a green envelope and then leave. This was the first time that Tommy would see them though, as after-school volleyball practice had come to an end. It was dreadful to think that his parents might be doing all of this to show him off as their “pride and joy.” In truth, he probably was, but didn't appreciate the extra attention. No matter, he was looking forward to the better-than-normal meal they'd get to eat after it was declined by the visitors.<br>
